Mavis: Asking parents the right health questions for flu (#146)
NHSDigital/prevention-services-design-history: app/posts/manage-vaccinations-in-schools/2025/06/flu-health-questions.md

---
title: Asking parents the right health questions for flu
date: 2025-06-17
---

For the 2025 flu programme, we reviewed the health questions currently asked by SAIS teams, as well as those recommended by the UKHSA.

Given the volume of children vaccinated against flu each year, it’s important for this programme to make sure parents only give details for health conditions that are contraindications for either the nasal spray, injected vaccine, or both.

> After researching with parents, including those from different faith communities, we refined these to male sure that we gave enough guidance to help parents answer correctly and with the right amount of detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After researching with parents, including those from different faith communities, we refined these to make sure that we gave enough guidance to help parents answer correctly and with the right amount of detail.
```

> We also provided space for parents to give teams extra information about their child, such as any other medical conditions or whether they need extra support. While we show this information to teams, these answers will not require triage ahead of a session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also provided space for parents to give teams extra information about their child, such as any other medical conditions or whether they need extra support. While vaccinators can see this information on the patient's page before and during the session, these answers will not require triage ahead of a session.
```
